>> Brian Holt: Context.
Don't want to dwell too much on this.
Again, Frontend Masters has some really
great courses on some of the deeper
JavaScript fundamentals, which I would
suggest taking after you watch this.
Particularly anything from Kyle Simpson.
>> Brian Holt: But
let's say that I had some object.
And it'd be really nice
rather than having to
individually have to rewrite
addresses over and over again.
This happened to me when I was doing like
working on an e-commerce site at Reddit.
I didn't want to have to write someone's
address every damn time that I needed to.
So I wrote functions that given an object
would generate an address, right?
So I have this thing here
that lives on 500 Fakestreet.
I'm not dumb enough to
put my address up here.
[LAUGH] And then I have a function
here called getAddress, right?
And so
now if I call console.log.getAddress.
You'll see here that it actually prints
a convincing looking American address,
right?
So this is a very finicky beast,
it's a source of many bugs.
And I will say that even many mid and
senior-level developers
don't fully grasp what this is
doing at any particular time.
So in this case,
[LAUGH] it's contextual, right?
That's kind of the point,
I think this belies that fact, right?
But if I say this.name.first, right?
It's referring to the object
that it's currently in, right?
So if I say this.name,
it's referring to name, right?
So you can think of this
in this particular case,
this is a tongue twister, as me, right?
So this is referring to
whatever object it's on.
And that's kind of the gist of
behind what this is supposed to be.
So in this case,
it's very clear that this refers to me.
That's pretty obvious, right?
But it can get so much more complicated.
And sometimes, it becomes very
unclear of what this can be.
>> Brian Holt: So for example,
if I put a function here,
>> Brian Holt: console.log(this),
what do you think that
this is going to be?
>> Speaker 2: Name?
>> Brian Holt: It's gonna
be the name object, so
let's just me., I'll just put it above it.
console.log.me.name.logMeOut.
>> Brian Holt: So there you go.
It's actually going to end up being name.
So it's a little,
perhaps counter-intuitive or
maybe it's intuitive to you, yeah?
>> Speaker 3: Sorry,
if you just answered this but
why is it this instead of
putting just me.name.first?
>> Brian Holt: Because they're not always
going to have access to me in that
particular scope, right?
>> Speaker 3: Okay, so this just
references the object that it would be
talking to in a more generic sense?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I think that's a good way of putting it.
>> Speaker 4: And do you need to create
the function inside the object to use it?
Or can it be created outside?
>> Brian Holt: It's possible
to create it outside of it.
Let's not talk about that, but
in general it'll be created inside
of the objects, yeah, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: So it looks like
if you want to make an object,
you write it out like this, and
I can make const me or const Brian,
const Emma, whatever and
write all of this.
If I know that I'm gonna need
a whole bunch of user profiles, or
a whole bunch of people objects, do you
not have to start with a generic, a person
has a first name and last name and this
method [SOUND] and then make instances?
Can you just make up a bunch of
instances without the first part?
>> Brian Holt: Right, so
in other programming languages,
you have to be a little bit more
disciplined about how you declare it.
And you have to declare, this is gonna
take in strings and give back numbers, and
that kind of thing.
JavaScript doesn't even let you do that.
>> Speaker 4: Wow.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
it's purely dynamic in nature,
which is great because there's a lot of
circumstance and
rituals that you don't have to do, right?
Like writing header files in C++ and
that kind of stuff, right?
If I never have to write another
one of those again, I'll be happy.
[LAUGH] But at the same time that
kind of thought process helps, right,
because you can kind of see how your
program's flowing, what it expects,
kind of the contracts between
different parts of your program.
So it is a trade off.
You end up with more bugs, I would say.
>> Speaker 4: If I need 500 people,
I'm gonna write that stuff out 500 times.
>> Brian Holt: Or you could write
a function that generates people.
>> Speaker 4: Right.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: And so by declaring it,
const me, you wouldn't be able
to make all the changes that
you're making to this
in a normal situation.
>> Brian Holt: You guys are asking
all the good questions today.
So, what trips people up about const,
I would say,
is probably const's
biggest strike against it,
is I can still say me.name=or.first,
we'll put Niki in there, right?
>> Brian Holt: So it's not frozen.
This object is not frozen, however,
I cannot say, me = something else, right?
This is reassigning me.
And so
that right there is gonna say type error.
You tried to reassign me.
However, I can totally change
things inside of the object.
So now, if I say console, actually,
I just do this again, right?
>> Brian Holt: You'll see down
here that now it's Niki Holt.
>> Brian Holt: So
that's confusing for a lot of people.
It's just something you
have to get used to.
It basically means that you can't
reassign it at the top level, right, but
you can meddle around with
the things inside of it.
So yes, that's what this is.
If you see it, that's what it means.
It's basically referring to
the object around it, but sometimes,
you can get kind of messed up and this can
be called in strange circumstances then
you don't know what this is gonna be.
So another good example of that,
if I said console.log,
this right here,
what do you expect it to log out?
>> Brian Holt: I mean,
the answer is it's nonsensical, right?
So it doesn't really matter.
Okay, let's delete that.
I think it should be Window, but
I don't actually know what this library is
gonna do with it so I don't really know.
[LAUGH] I don't know what
context this is being called in.
And I think I just crashed it.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So it doesn't really
even know what to do about that.
Yeah, but often you can't
predict what this is gonna be.
So if I come back in here and trash that.
Now, if I put this here,
what would you expect it to be?
That's tough too but
it's gonna be the window.
Window is like the whole page, right?
So if I said this.,
>> Brian Holt: Date,
which is one of the functions that's
built onto the window, right?
So it can be pretty tough to predict.
And sometimes,
you can even call a function like this
one that we have in here,
wherever this is.
This one right here.
And if I don't call getAddress
the correct way, I can break it and
this will become something else.
So I'm trying to underline the fact
that this can be very complicated.
And so
whenever you're using this somewhere,
just know that you're
stepping into a minefield.
>> Speaker 4: I was going to ask, do you
ever use this to figure out, I guess,
where you are, or what the scope is at
any given time, or is that dangerous?
>> Brian Holt: No, I mean,
if I was in debugging I wouldn't
ship that to production, right?
But yeah, I've done that before.
I'm not above that.
[LAUGH] But yeah, I can show you here,
let's see if I did.
So, setTimeout is a function
that whatever you call it,
it'll wait in the next key to function.
And then, if I call this.me.getAddress and
I did wait 1000 milliseconds
which will wait
one second,
>> Brian Holt: It's
probably not gonna try and
execute that, is it?
Well, it wouldn't know
how to deal with that but
we'll just put this in my console here.
So now I have me over here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, trash that.
And then I'll put this in my console.
>> Brian Holt: And actually,
it is working but nothing is happening,
right, because all of these are undefined.
>> Brian Holt: Or it's just erroring out.
In any case, it's not gonna work because
whenever you do a set time out like this,
it changes the context.
Which you can fix but
I'm not gonna show you.
[LAUGH] Suffice to say it's a minefield,
right?
So, general rule of thumb is that this is
going to refer to whatever object it's on,
and that you should worry about it.
That's kind of my sum of my story here,
Laynee?
>> Speaker 3: What would be
recommended if you had to delete
declared variables using let and
const statements?
Are there any delete
keywords in JavaScript?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, just delete.
[LAUGH] So here.
I never do this.
I can't really fathom times that I've
had to do this, but it is possible.
So let's say that for whatever reason
I wanted to delete the name or
something like that.
You can say delete me.name.
And then, whenever I call,
obviously this.name underneath
here is gonna be undefined.
So you can't access properties
on things that are undefined.
>> Brian Holt: But this does work,
you never have to do it.
>> Brian Holt: This is actually
something good to talk about, though.
So I have an object here,
console.log(me), right?
>> Brian Holt: And then, if I have
me.name, but maybe I was thinking, a name.
It should have a middle name, right?
And I put .middle, okay?
And then,
maybe I wanted that in uppercase,
>> Brian Holt: Right,
the first thing it's gonna say here is,
you can't access something on
something that's undefined,
right, middle is not a thing.
So that's when I get me.name.middle
is undefined, right?
So whenever you see something like that,
an error like that,
probably means that you're trying to
access something that doesn't exist.
Or another one here is maybe I was
assuming that middle was a function and so
I put those parenthesis there, and it's
gonna say undefined is not a function.
So that's another one that
you'll frequently see.
It's a common mistake to make.
>> Brian Holt: That's why.
You can't invoke something
that's not a function.